samples: coremark: Add coremark sample to sdk-nrf (#14315)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/benchmarks/coremark/README.rst

You can select the following memory allocation methods:

* The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK` Kconfig option uses the main thread stack for data allocation and is enabled by default.
  You can change the main stack size by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MAIN_STACK_SIZE` Kconfig option.
* The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_MALLOC` Kconfig option uses Zephyr :c:func:`k_malloc\k_free` functions to allocate the memory in the heap.
  You can adjust the heap size with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_HEAP_MEM_POOL_SIZE` Kconfig option.
* The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STATIC` option allows data allocation in the RAM as a regular static variable.
  In this case you do not need to be aware of the main thread stack size or heap memory pool size.

CoreMark can also be executed in the multithread mode.
To specify a number of threads, use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_THREADS_NUMBER` Kconfig option.
You can configure up to four threads.
In the multithread mode, CoreMark is executed in all threads simultaneously.

> By default the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TIMESLICE_SIZE` Kconfig option is set to 10 ms which imitates RTOS multithread usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TIMESLICE_SIZE` Kconfig option is set to 10 ms which imitates RTOS multithread usage.
```

.. _coremark_sample:

CoreMark
########

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The sample demonstrates how to run the `CoreMark®`_ benchmark to evaluate performance of a core.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

Overview
********

The sample runs the CoreMark benchmark on the target CPU.
CoreMark evaluates the CPU efficiency by performing different algorithms, such as state machine, CRC calculation, matrix manipulation, and list processing (find and sort).

To run the CoreMark benchmark on the preferred core, press the corresponding button.

> For the button assignment, see the `User interface`_ section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the button assignment, see the :ref:`coremark_user_interface` section.
```

When the benchmark finishes running, you can restart it by pressing the same button.
If you want to run the sample upon the startup, enable the :kconfig:option:`COREMARK_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option.

> .. _user interface:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _coremark_user_interface:
```

updated in all places for better naming convention

User interface
**************

Each target CPU has an assigned button responsible for starting the benchmark and LED that indicates the ``test in progress`` state:

> Button 1:
>    Start the benchmark run on the Application Core.
> Button 2:
>    Start the benchmark run on the Network/Radio Core.
> Button 3:
>    Start the benchmark run on the PPR Core.
> LED 1:
>    Indicates ``test in progress`` on the Application Core.
> LED 2:
>    Indicates ``test in progress`` on the Network/Radio Core.
> LED 3:
>    Indicates ``test in progress`` on the PPR Core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Button 1:
   Start the benchmark run on the application core.
   
Button 2:
   Start the benchmark run on the network/radio core.
   
Button 3:
   Start the benchmark run on the PPR core.
   
LED 1:
   Indicates ``test in progress`` on the application core.
   
LED 2:
   Indicates ``test in progress`` on the network/radio core.
   
LED 3:
   Indicates ``test in progress`` on the PPR core.
```

Configuration
*************

CoreMark runs tests multiple times.
You can define the number of iterations with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_ITERATIONS` Kconfig option.
By default, the iteration quantity is set to the minimum time required for valid results, which is 10 seconds.

CoreMark has the following predefined run types and data sizes that are used for data algorithms:

* The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_RUN_TYPE_PERFORMANCE` Kconfig option - Sets :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE` to 2000 bytes.
* The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_RUN_TYPE_PROFILE` Kconfig option - Sets :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE` to 1200 bytes.
* The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_RUN_TYPE_VALIDATION` Kconfig option - Sets :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE` to 500 bytes.

> You can also specify a custom :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE` value and submit your results following rules from `CoreMark GitHub`_ website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also specify a custom :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE` value and submit your results by following the rules from the `CoreMark GitHub`_ repository.
```

> 
> When setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE` Kconfig option the selected memory space needs to be available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that when setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE` Kconfig option the required memory space is available.
```
reworded for better flow

In the multithread mode, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE` Kconfig option is allocated for each thread separately.
Only the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_MALLOC` memory methods can be used with multiple threads.
In case of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK` Kconfig option, the data for all threads are allocated to the main thread stack.

Building and running
********************

When running the benchmark, an extra build flag (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT`) is set to ``-O3`` to achieve the best CoreMark results.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/benchmark/coremark
   :board: nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp
   :goals: build flash
   :compact:

After flashing, messages describing the benchmark state will appear in the console.

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to your development kit, complete the following steps to test it:

1. Connect to the development kit with a terminal emulator (for example, PuTTY).
#. Reset your development kit.
#. To start the test, press the button assigned to the respective core.

>    To see the assignment, refer to the `User interface`_ section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To see the assignment, refer to the :ref:`coremark_user_interface` section.
```

.. _coremark_sample:

CoreMark
########

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The sample demonstrates how to run the `CoreMark®`_ benchmark to evaluate performance of a core.

Reviewer 2: Can the sample be renamed to a name that does not just include a registered trademark name? For similar reason for which we don't name any sample just "Bluetooth".
Suggestions: `CoreMark benchmark evaluation` or `CoreMark evaluation`

Author: Don't understand ... 
We are literally using source of coremark here so why cannot we use this name? Is there some legal problem with using this name?

Reviewer 3: Just the name of the sample from CoreMark to CoreMark benchmark evaluation (or without the word benchmark).

Author: Could you explain to me why it should be changed?

Reviewer 3: Just to clarify directly in the sample name what the CoreMark is used for. I agree it could also be left as is (something similar would be for example Memfault).

Author: If that the only cause then name Coremark is for me much more clear then "CoreMark evaluation". We are running sample from coremark repository https://github.com/eembc/coremark
The part that is in NCS is just porting layer and some stuff like buttons and leds.

Reviewer 2: Calling a sample with a pure trademark name will be problematic if there are more pages about CoreMark appearing anywhere in the docs.

Reviewer 2: @zycz , question: Are you using the entirety of the benchmark suite or just a subset of its features?

Regardless of the answer, @peknis mentioned Memfault. If this sample is integrating CoreMark repository into the NCS, the documentation also requires an integration page: https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/integrations.html

Template here: https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/templates/Integration_template_README.html

Reviewer 2: Clarified with @zycz that this sample integrates all of the benchmark suite. I'm fine with following the Memfault case then, as long as there is the integration doc added.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

Overview
********

The sample runs the CoreMark benchmark on the target CPU.
CoreMark evaluates the CPU efficiency by performing different algorithms, such as state machine, CRC calculation, matrix manipulation, and list processing (find and sort).

To run the CoreMark benchmark on the preferred core, press the corresponding button.
For the button assignment, see the :ref:`coremark_user_interface` section.
When the benchmark has completed, you can press the same button to restart it.
If you want to run the sample upon the startup, enable the :kconfig:option:`COREMARK_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option.

.. _coremark_user_interface:

User interface
**************

Each target CPU has an assigned button responsible for starting the benchmark and LED that indicates the ``test in progress`` state:

Button 1:

>    Start the benchmark run on the application core.

Author: This is readme for a sample which we suggest should be used in specific way (here we build for app core) We don't have to predict every possible configuration user will do.

Button 2:

>    Start the benchmark run on the network/radio core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Start the benchmark run on the network or radio core (or both).
```
If it is just one core, then `network (radio) core`.

Author: same as above

Reviewer 2: As mentioned by Pekka, we don't really use `/` in docs to indicate alternatives, as they could mean `X or Y` or `X and Y`.

Button 3:
   Start the benchmark run on the PPR core.

LED 1:
   Indicates ``test in progress`` on the application core.

LED 2:

>    Indicates ``test in progress`` on the network/radio core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Indicates ``test in progress`` on the network or radio core (or both).
```
If it is just one core, then `network (radio) core`.

Author: I prefer "/ " version as it doesn't show which name is default.

Reviewer 3: We do not really use these "/" things in docs. I believe Greg's proposal is valid.

LED 3:
   Indicates ``test in progress`` on the PPR core.

Configuration
*************

CoreMark runs tests multiple times.
You can define the number of iterations using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_ITERATIONS` Kconfig option.
By default, the iteration quantity is set to the minimum time required for valid results, which is 10 seconds.

CoreMark has the following predefined run types and data sizes that are used for data algorithms:

* The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_RUN_TYPE_PERFORMANCE` Kconfig option - Sets :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE` to 2000 bytes.
* The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_RUN_TYPE_PROFILE` Kconfig option - Sets :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE` to 1200 bytes.
* The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_RUN_TYPE_VALIDATION` Kconfig option - Sets :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE` to 500 bytes.

You can also specify a custom :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE` value and submit your results by following the rules from the `CoreMark GitHub`_ repository.
Make sure that when setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE` Kconfig option the required memory space is available.

> You can select the following memory allocation methods:

Author: I leave decision to techwriters - don't want to add another person to that disccusion.

* The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK` Kconfig option uses the main thread stack for data allocation and is enabled by default.
  You can change the main stack size by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MAIN_STACK_SIZE` Kconfig option.
* The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_MALLOC` Kconfig option uses Zephyr :c:func:`k_malloc\k_free` functions to allocate the memory in the heap.
  You can adjust the heap size with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_HEAP_MEM_POOL_SIZE` Kconfig option.
* The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STATIC` option allows data allocation in the RAM as a regular static variable.

>   In this case you do not need to be aware of the main thread stack size or heap memory pool size.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  In this case, you do not need to be aware of the main thread stack size or heap memory pool size.
```

CoreMark can also be executed in the multithread mode.
To specify a number of threads, use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_THREADS_NUMBER` Kconfig option.
You can configure up to four threads.
In the multithread mode, CoreMark is executed in all threads simultaneously.

> By default, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TIMESLICE_SIZE` Kconfig option is set to 10 ms which imitates RTOS multithread usage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TIMESLICE_SIZE` Kconfig option is set to 10 ms, which imitates RTOS multithread usage.
```

However, in the final report the thread execution is combined.
In the multithread mode, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE` Kconfig option is allocated for each thread separately.
Only the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_MALLOC` memory methods can be used with multiple threads.

> In case of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK` Kconfig option, the data for all threads are allocated to the main thread stack.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In case of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK` Kconfig option, the data for all threads is allocated to the main thread stack.
```

Building and running
********************

When running the benchmark, an extra build flag (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT`) is set to ``-O3`` to achieve the best CoreMark results.

.. code-block:: sh

   west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp samples/benchmark/coremark
   west flash

> After flashing, messages describing the benchmark state will appear in the console.

Reviewer 2: Do not duplicate generic information about building and flashing. Please link to https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/config_and_build/configuring_app/index.html and https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/config_and_build/programming.html instead.

Reviewer 2: Also, please run the sample using the nRF Connect extension for VS Code and make sure no additional configuration steps are required in the extension.

Author: Should I use approach as in other samples here in hello_world:

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/multicore/hello_world`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_sb.txt

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to your development kit, complete the following steps to test it:

> 1. Connect to the development kit with a terminal emulator (for example, PuTTY).

Reviewer 2: Link to https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/test_and_optimize.html
Also, nRF Connect Serial Terminal is now the recommended emulator, not PuTTY.

Author: Should I use:       1. |connect_terminal| ?

Reviewer 3: Yes. Check the connect terminal shortcuts in https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/blob/main/doc/nrf/shortcuts.txt and see which one of them fits best.

#. To start the test, press the button assigned to the respective core.
   For button assignment, refer to the :ref:`coremark_user_interface` section.

>   * All target cores work independently from each other, and it is possible to run the benchmark on several cores simultaneously.
>     Measurements running on a core are indicated by the corresponding LED.
>     If the :kconfig:option:`COREMARK_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option is enabled, the measurement will launch automatically on all available cores when starting the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * All target cores work independently from each other, and it is possible to run the benchmark on several cores simultaneously.
     Measurements running on a core are indicated by the corresponding LED.
     If the :kconfig:option:`COREMARK_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option is enabled, the measurement will launch automatically on all available cores when starting the application.
```
needs an extra indent - renders incorrectly

Reviewer: The initial version was without the bullet point but if left like that it was pointed out that the readability is not great

Reviewer 4: I also agree to keep the main point and description separate as above.
Actually, I meant to keep the format as is and to just remove the bullet. 
Discussed offline this with Anna, and she agree on this :).

>    If the :kconfig:option:`COREMARK_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option is enabled, the measurement will launch on the application's start automatically on all available cores.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   If the :kconfig:option:`COREMARK_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option is enabled, the measurement will launch automatically on all available cores when starting the application.
```

>    If the :kconfig:option:`COREMARK_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option is enabled, the measurement will launch on the application's start automatically on all available cores.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this be broken into several steps and/or scenarios? @peknis ?

Reviewer 3: Maybe some bullet points could make this a bit clearer.

> #. Wait for all measurements to finish.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Wait for all measurements to complete.
```

In the multithread mode, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE` Kconfig option is allocated for each thread separately.
Only the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_MALLOC` memory methods can be used with multiple threads.
In case of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK` Kconfig option, the data for all threads is allocated to the main thread stack.

Building and running
********************

When running the benchmark, an extra build flag (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT`) is set to ``-O3`` to achieve the best CoreMark results.

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/benchmarks/coremark`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_sb.txt

After flashing, messages describing the benchmark state will appear in the console.

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to your development kit, complete the following steps to test it:

1. |connect_terminal|
#. Reset your development kit.
#. To start the test, press the button assigned to the respective core.
   For button assignment, refer to the :ref:`coremark_user_interface` section.

>    * All target cores work independently from each other, and it is possible to run the benchmark on several cores simultaneously.

Reviewer 3: No need for a bullet list for a single item.

.. _CoreMark®: https://www.eembc.org/coremark/

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

+--------------------------------+-----------+------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+
|Hardware platforms              |PCA        |Board name                                      |Build target                        |
+================================+===========+================================================+====================================+
|`nRF52 DK`_                     |PCA10040   |:ref:`nrf52dk_nrf52832 <nrf52dk_nrf52832>`      |``nrf52dk_nrf52832``                |
+--------------------------------+-----------+------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+
|`nRF52840 DK`_                  |PCA10056   |:ref:`nrf52840dk_nrf52840 <nrf52840dk_nrf52840>`|``nrf52840dk_nrf52840``             |
+--------------------------------+-----------+------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+
|`nRF5340 DK`_                   |PCA10095   |:ref:`nrf5340dk_nrf5340 <nrf5340dk_nrf5340>`    |``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp``        |

> +--------------------------------+-----------+------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------+

Reviewer: The entire table should be generated as yaml table

Overview
********

The sample runs the CoreMark benchmark on the target CPU.

> CoreMark evaluates the CPU efficiency by performing different algorithms, such as state machine, CRC calculation, matrix manipulation and list processing (find and sort).

Author: Should we put comma before and in a list of things?

> CoreMark evaluates the CPU efficiency by performing different algorithms, such as state machine, CRC calculation, matrix manipulation and list processing (find and sort).

Reviewer: In case of longer lists comma before "and" highlights that each listed item is separate, thus in tech writing is used to enhance the text clarity:)

To run CoreMark benchmark on the preferred core, press the button that corresponds to the core.
When the benchmark finishes running, it can be started again by pressing the button assigned to the given core.
Enable ``COREMARK_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN`` if you want the sample to run for the first time upon startup.

User interface
**************

Each target CPU has an assigned button and LED that are responsible for triggering the benchmark's start and ``test in progress``:

Button 1:
   Start the benchmark run on the Application Core.
Button 2:
   Start the benchmark run on the Network/Radio Core.
Button 3:

>    Start the benchmark run on the PPR Core.

Reviewer 5: Right now there is no nRF54H related code in this PR so maybe we should also remove such mentions from docs? We could introduce it later with proper support

By default, the ``CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK`` option is selected.
In this case, the main thread stack is used for data allocation.
To change the main stack size, use the ``CONFIG_MAIN_STACK_SIZE`` option.

If you select the ``CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_MALLOC`` option, Zephyr :c:func:`k_malloc\k_free` functions will be used to allocate the memory in the heap.
Adjust the heap size with the ``CONFIG_HEAP_MEM_POOL_SIZE`` config option.

If you select the ``CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STATIC`` option, data will be allocated to the RAM as a regular static variable.
In this case you do not need to be aware of the main thread stack size or heap memory pool size.

CoreMark can be executed in a multithread mode.
To specify a number of threads, use the ``CONFIG_COREMARK_THREADS_NUMBER`` option.
You can configure up to four threads.
In the multithread mode, CoreMark is executed in all threads simultaneously.
By default ``CONFIG_TIMESLICE_SIZE`` is set to 10 ms which imitates RTOS multithread usage.
However, in the final report thread execution is combined.
In multithread mode, the ``CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE`` option is allocated for each thread separately.

> Only the ``CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK`` and ``CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_MALLOC`` memory methods can be used with multiple threads.

Author: Asserts in kconfig - such a combination exists? Maybe we should add some dependency for COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STATIC that COREMARK_THREADS_NUMBER equals to 1

> Only the ``CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK`` and ``CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_MALLOC`` memory methods can be used with multiple threads.

Reviewer 6: Assert in code - sorry for confusion

> Only the ``CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK`` and ``CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_MALLOC`` memory methods can be used with multiple threads.

Reviewer 6: Yes, it would be nice to add the mentioned dependency in kconfig. Alternatively, you can change COREMARK_THREADS_NUMBER range to "1 1" if CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STATIC. I'm okay with both approaches.

> Only the ``CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK`` and ``CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_MALLOC`` memory methods can be used with multiple threads.

Reviewer 6: If we add proper dependencies in Kconfig assert in code may be not needed, but it will still be nice to have to double-check configuration.

In case of the ``CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK`` option, the data for all threads are allocated to the main thread stack.

Building and running
********************

An extra build flag ``CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT="-O3"`` is applied when running the benchmark to achieve the best CoreMark results.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/benchmark/coremark
   :board: nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp
   :goals: build flash
   :compact:

> After flashing, messages will appear in the corresponding console that describe the state of the benchmark.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After flashing, messages describing the benchmark state will appear in the console.
```

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to your development kit, complete the following steps to test it:

1. Connect to the development kit with a terminal emulator (for example, PuTTY).
#. Reset your development kit.
#. To start the test, press the button assigned to the respective core.

>    To see the assignment, refer to the User interface section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To see the assignment, refer to the `User interface`_ section.
```

   All target cores work independently from each other.
   It is possible to run the benchmark on several cores simultaneously.
   Measurements running on a core will be indicated by the corresponding LED.

>    If the ``COREMARK_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN`` option is enabled, the measurement will launch on the application's start automatically on all available cores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If the :kconfig:option:`COREMARK_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option is enabled, the measurement will launch on the application's start automatically on all available cores.
```

> #. Wait for all measurements to be complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Wait for all measurements to finish.
```

>    By default test will take approximately 11-13 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   By default, the test takes approximately 11-13 seconds.
```

> #. Wait for the console output for both cores.

Reviewer: Is the statement "both cores" applicable to all scenarios?

Author: Changed to "Wait for the console output for all tested cores."

         [00:00:00.502,197] <inf> app: Press Push button switch 0 to start the test ...
         [00:00:14.483,764] <inf> app: Push button switch 0 pressed!
         [00:00:14.511,627] <inf> app: Coremark started!
         [00:00:14.511,627] <inf> app: CPU FREQ: 64000000 Hz
         [00:00:14.511,627] <inf> app: (threads: 1, data size: 2000; iterations: 2000)

         2K performance run parameters for coremark.
         CoreMark Size    : 666
         Total ticks      : 401312
         Total time (secs): 12.247070
         Iterations/Sec   : 163.304366
         Iterations       : 2000
         Compiler version : GCC10.3.0
         Compiler flags   : -O3
         Memory location  : STACK
         seedcrc          : 0xe9f5
         [0]crclist       : 0xe714
         [0]crcmatrix     : 0x1fd7
         [0]crcstate      : 0x8e3a
         [0]crcfinal      : 0x4983
         Correct operation validated. See README.md for run and reporting rules.
         CoreMark 1.0 : 163.304366 / GCC10.3.0 -O3 / STACK
         [00:00:27.759,582] <inf> app: Coremark finished! Press Push button switch 0 to restart ...

> .. _CoreMark GitHub: https://github.com/eembc/coremark#submitting-results

Reviewer: as per previous comment: external links should be move to link.txt

.. _coremark_sample:

CoreMark
########

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The sample demonstrates how to run the `CoreMark®`_ benchmark to evaluate the performance of a core.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

Overview
********

The sample runs the CoreMark benchmark on the target CPU.
CoreMark evaluates the CPU efficiency by performing different algorithms, such as state machine, CRC calculation, matrix manipulation, and list processing (find and sort).

To run the CoreMark benchmark on the preferred core, press the corresponding button.
For the button assignment, see the :ref:`coremark_user_interface` section.
When the benchmark has completed, you can press the same button to restart it.

> If you want to run the sample upon startup, enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 7: `CONFIG_APP_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN`. Btw. IIRC we cannot use this form of Kconfig reference for sample/app specific options

.. _coremark_user_interface:

User interface
**************

Each target CPU has an assigned button responsible for starting the benchmark and LED that indicates the ``test in progress`` state:

Button 1:
   Start the benchmark run on the application core.

Button 2:
   Start the benchmark run on the network or radio core.

Button 3:
   Start the benchmark run on the PPR core.

LED 1:
   Indicates ``test in progress`` on the application core.

LED 2:
   Indicates ``test in progress`` on the network or radio core.

LED 3:
   Indicates ``test in progress`` on the PPR core.

.. _coremark_configuration:

Configuration
*************

|config|

CoreMark runs tests multiple times.
You can define the number of iterations using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_ITERATIONS` Kconfig option.
By default, the iteration quantity is set to the minimum time required for valid results, which is 10 seconds.

Additional configuration
========================

> Check and configure the following configuration options that are used by the sample:

Reviewer 7: I think that CoreMark module configuration should belong to CoreMark module doc (sample should only link there).

Reviewer 7: Currently we kinda duplicate part of the information among these documentation pages (and module's docs does not inform about everything)

Author: @annwoj @peknis  what do you think?

Reviewer 3: Well, in case of Memfault docs, for example, the configuration options are introduced in the sample documentation rather than in the integration doc.

Reviewer 7: I am actually wondering if it's a good practice. Maybe we could clearly separate sample-specific options from options for an external component's options (otherwise e.g. integrating external component somewhere else may be tricky)?

Reviewer 3: We might want to introduce only the samplle-specific Kconfig options in the sample doc and the rest in the integration doc.

Reviewer 7: @zycz can we change it here (should not be too difficult). Or maybe we could do it as follow-up action?

Author: Yes we can do it. However IMO 90% of user will only use sample. Placing there information about Kconfig options from module has purpose. 

But If @peknis decides that we should separate them then I will follow this decision.

Reviewer 7: I think that if we already decided to separate external module from the sample, then we should maintain proper split of Kconfig options documentation (keep in mind that sample introduces sample-specific options which are unavailable for the external module). We can merge PR as is, but maybe let's add a follow-up ticket to ensure we remember about it.

@peknis, please let me know what do you think about it

Reviewer 7: Also, the external component doc may need to be slightly improved (currently we do not inform about adding code which is a necessary step to integrate CoreMark external module)

Run types and data sizes
------------------------

> CoreMark has the following predefined run types and data sizes that are used for data algorithms:

Author: I think it is too detailed information and would only obscure important information.

> CoreMark has the following predefined run types and data sizes that are used for data algorithms:

Reviewer 7: Would not insist

Only the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_MALLOC` memory methods can be used with multiple threads.
In case of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK` Kconfig option, the data for all threads is allocated to the main thread stack.

Building and running
********************

When running the benchmark, an extra build flag (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT`) is set to ``-O3`` to achieve the best CoreMark results.

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/benchmarks/coremark`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_sb.txt

After flashing, messages describing the benchmark state will appear in the console.

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to your development kit, complete the following steps to test it:

1. |connect_terminal|
#. Reset your development kit.
#. To start the test, press the button assigned to the respective core.
   For button assignment, refer to the :ref:`coremark_user_interface` section.

   All target cores work independently from each other, and it is possible to run the benchmark on several cores simultaneously.

>    Measurements running on a core are indicated by the corresponding LED.

Reviewer 7: LED is not used in the flash and run mode

>    If the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option is enabled, the measurement will launch automatically on all available cores when starting the application.

Reviewer 7: sample-specific option - see comment above

   The results will be similar to the following example:

      .. code-block:: console

         *** Booting Zephyr OS build bf606fc00ec1  ***
         [00:00:00.502,166] <inf> app: Coremark sample for nrf52dk_nrf52832. Call address: 00007fa1
         [00:00:00.502,197] <inf> app: Press Push button switch 0 to start the test ...
         [00:00:14.483,764] <inf> app: Push button switch 0 pressed!
         [00:00:14.511,627] <inf> app: Coremark started!
         [00:00:14.511,627] <inf> app: CPU FREQ: 64000000 Hz
         [00:00:14.511,627] <inf> app: (threads: 1, data size: 2000; iterations: 2000)

         2K performance run parameters for coremark.
         CoreMark Size    : 666
         Total ticks      : 401312
         Total time (secs): 12.247070
         Iterations/Sec   : 163.304366
         Iterations       : 2000
         Compiler version : GCC10.3.0
         Compiler flags   : -O3
         Memory location  : STACK
         seedcrc          : 0xe9f5
         [0]crclist       : 0xe714
         [0]crcmatrix     : 0x1fd7
         [0]crcstate      : 0x8e3a
         [0]crcfinal      : 0x4983
         Correct operation validated. See README.md for run and reporting rules.

>          CoreMark 1.0 : 163.304366 / GCC10.3.0 -O3 / STACK

Reviewer 7: Isn't the log outdated? Can we generate new one

  In this case, you do not need to be aware of the main thread stack size or heap memory pool size.

Multithread mode
----------------

CoreMark can also be executed in multithread mode.
To specify a number of threads, use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_THREADS_NUMBER` Kconfig option.
In multithread mode, CoreMark is executed in all threads simultaneously.
Each thread runs number of iterations equal to :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_ITERATIONS`.
By default, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TIMESLICE_SIZE` Kconfig option is set to 10 ms, which imitates RTOS multithread usage.
However, in the final report, the thread execution is combined.
In the multithread mode, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE` Kconfig option is allocated for each thread separately.
Only the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_MALLOC` memory methods can be used with multiple threads.
In case of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK` Kconfig option, the data for all threads is allocated to the main thread stack.

Configuration options
=====================

Check and configure the following Kconfig options:

> .. _CONFIG_APP_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN:

Reviewer 8: Add an entry regarding the CONFIG_SB_APP_CPUNET_RUN. Try to describe it generally e.g. "Enable the benchmark execution also for the Network Core for targets with nRF53 SoC.

In multithread mode, CoreMark is executed in all threads simultaneously.
Each thread runs number of iterations equal to :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_ITERATIONS`.
By default, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TIMESLICE_SIZE` Kconfig option is set to 10 ms, which imitates RTOS multithread usage.
However, in the final report, the thread execution is combined.
In the multithread mode, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_DATA_SIZE` Kconfig option is allocated for each thread separately.
Only the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_MALLOC` memory methods can be used with multiple threads.
In case of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COREMARK_MEMORY_METHOD_STACK` Kconfig option, the data for all threads is allocated to the main thread stack.

Configuration options
=====================

Check and configure the following Kconfig options:

.. _CONFIG_APP_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN:

CONFIG_APP_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN - Start CoreMark sample automatically after flashing
   If enabled, CoreMark will start execution immediately after CPU start up.
   It also disables LEDs and buttons.

>    Otherwise, it will wait button to be pressed.

Reviewer: Maybe it could be simplified to just say: "it will wait for the button press" ? Also, the same applies to the Kconfig description under `samples/benchmarks/coremark/Kconfig`
